# Documentation

[← Back to Main Page](README.md)

### Field & Lab Journal

First visit to the Atrium Carolina's Rehabilitation Center in Charlotte was 09/26. We toured their assistive technology lab and were able to see a lot of the current devices they are using. Then we took a tour of their gym on the first floor and met one of their patients "Jordan," a 23 year old male who has issues walking and tremors due to a stroke, and we were able to see him practice walking across the gym with a walker. We then toured the gym on the spinal and brain trauma floor and met a 21 year old we call "Shaq" whose spinal cord was severed after he was shot in the back. We discussed with the nurses what kinds of devices they were already using and what needed to be improved. 

**10/06/25** Today we began designing the donning tubes. Marisol made the design for the donning tube, but everyone else had input on dimensions. Our plan is to have 2 variations each with three possible sizes to ensure that the donning tubes can reach a wider group of patients. There will be short or long donning tubes that come in small, medium, and large sizes. Karlin and Caroline found a file for the quadstick mouthpiece to begin printing it out. Scarlett finished filling out the spreadsheet for everyone's jobs on the projects. 

**10/07/25** Today Marisol completed her 5 versions of the donning tubes and uploaded screenshots to the Git. Scarlett began printing for the mounts and organized the supports in Bambu accordingly. Karlin gathered the 3 hole narrow, 3 hole wide, 4 hole narrow, 4 hole wide models of the quadstick mouthpiece onto to 1 file and printed them. Marisol will add her designs to the shared drive with the hospital and will print next class. Caroline was not in class today but will continue working with Scarlett when she returns. 

**10/08/25** Today Scarlett and Caroline printed out an alternate option for the video game mount using ratchet locking joints. Marisol printed out the medium handles donning tube and had to scale it down to 70% to be able to fit on the printer because the design is too big for the plate. Karlin printed out another set of the Quadstick mouthpieces and adjusted some of the supports before printing. 

**10/10/25** Today Karlin started researching methods on how to attach a water bottle holder to a wheelchair. She discovered that using a holster similar to a bike water bottle holder would work best. She then moved on to designing and researching the best water bottle and straw attachment. 

**10/21/25** Today we put together our schedules in a spreadsheet to compare when we can host meetings with the other students that want to be involved with Pearl. This involved marking what days we can come before or stay after and assign projects such as mass printing jobs or recreating designs for us. Once we have a full meeting outside of school, it will be much easier to catch up during community time during school and check in on their progress and/or assign new tasks. This will be helpful because the younger/less experienced kids can get involved and help without having too much responsibility. This is also a cool opportunity for the four of us because we can focus on design and programming (the more creative side of Pearl) and less on watching the 3D printers crank out ten of the same design. However, it is good for the other students to learn how to handle all of the tools in the lab so it is a win-win for both parties. 

**10/22/25** Today I worked on the easy grip pill crushers. This involved two designs (one screw and one press). I began printing both of these to see which one is more effective. I found that if the screw design is to work, I need to add to where the pill is being crushed between. I also found that I need to print a bar to allow the file to hinge. I also worked on Github for 25 minutes to get used to making my digital portfolio; I learned how to do tables and change the size and bold of my text. 

**10/23/25** I spent most of my time on Github today. I also got both of the prints off of the Bambu, and began to design the hinge that I was referring to yesterday. 

**10/27/25** Today we learned about a new software called MakeraCAM. I have never worked on this before, and at first it was very complicated. We pulled 4 files from the main drive so that we could focus on how to specify it instead of the actual design right now. I learned how to center the design (using coordinates (6, 6) and making a pocket, contour, and drilling. I also learned how to add specific tools. This was helpful because I was able to learn new software (which will come in handy now that we have a new CNC machine). The benefits of this machine is that it switches out the tools unlike the manual version. This means that we can walk away after getting the g-code started, which leads to more efficiency in the lab. 

**10/30/25** Today I spent the majority of the day creating a slideshow to present to the students interested in working on Pearl. This included a training regime, an explanation on the program as a whole, and deciphering what level each person is on. 

**10/31/25** Today I used our new CNC machine to mill a board. This was from a design that I made on Makera (the files were precreated but I had to specify the design depth, where to pocket, contour, and drill). This involved following a workflow created by a classmate. This made the slightly complicated setup much easier to follow and check. I spent the other half of class (after I started running the program) on Github and updating my documentation and digital portfolio. 

**11/3/25** Today I worked on my job for Pearl as Operations Lead, meaning that I created groups for training based on level of experience. This was much more difficult than it sounds because I had to cross reference experience in three different catagories (CAD, 3D printing, and soldering) and times available. I utlized ChatGPT to organize these groups and then I sent out emails to each group with a training schedule. This below is a brief overview of what levels I will be training next week.

**11/5/25** Today I learned how to create parametric designs in Fusion 360. I learned this for the main intention of adapting my donning tube. This is because while there can be generic sizes (small, medium, large), it is much more effectie to use variables to define dimensions such as length, width, diameter, filleting, etc. This is helpful for the kids I am going to train because I can send them the dimensions necessary and they can input said dimensions and print without needing to rework my whole design. I deleted the 5 versions of the files I had and created two instead. Both are parametric; one has handles and one does not. 

**11/7/25** Today the team and I worked on communication with the hospital. This included adding photos and designs to a shared OneDrive as well as writing a lengthy email involving next zoom meeting availabilies, future internship opportunities, and updates on our progress. We have a meeting scheduled for Tuesday at 8:00 AM. 

**11/11/25** Today we had our meeting with Heather Smith about our progress. This meeting was about 45 minutes and in the conversation we updated on our projects and heard feedback. The feedback I recieved about the donning tube is that parametric is a very smart way to keep the design, the tube can be one diameter instead of cone-like, and that there is a slight problem with the handle. While she did enjoy the concept, sometimes they put the sock over the opposite end of the tube to secure it while they roll it on. After discussion, I realized that we can keep the handles if I can create a ledge above them for the sock to hold on to. Karlin updated on her quad sticks and recieved positive remarks about the variety of designs including size and amount of holes to blow into. Scarlett and Caroline showed their progress on their mounts and learned more about the design aspects they want and don't want. Overall, today was very productive and we have another zoom meeting scheduled for November 18th. 

**11/12/25-11/13/25** On these two days I worked to make my GIT design better with the changes that Heather Smith adviced. To do this, I added a hollowed out triangle revolving around the cylinder right above the handle to create a place for the compression sock to hook around. However, there are a few challenges with this. For one, I had to abandon the parametric design for now because I was back in the designing stage and could not do that while creating variables. I have found that it is easier to finalize my idea and then go back and see how I want the dimensions to relate to eachother in the parametrics. The second issue is that I cannot tell if the hook will have enough space under it for the sock and I cannot do this without printing a whole new donning tube. They take around 7 hours to print and take alot of PLA, so I try to refrain from doing so until necessary. 

_Thanksgiving break from 11/22/25 to 11/30/25_

**12/1/25-12/5/25** This whole week is combined documentation because we had a review week on electrical engineering. This included alot of Tinkercad, where we simulated different circuits including some with LEDs, potentiometers, servos, and arduinos (obviously with the necessary parts like buttons, resistors, wires, etc). This week was pretty basic because the whole class took honors electrical engineering last year so we know arduino code and reviewed when to use digital (boolean values (true or false, on or off)) or analog (a range of values, such as the dimming of an LED). It wwas helpful to do this because our projects have a required electronics component. Mine may not (exception because I am working with Pearl) but if it does arise I will need to remember these basics.

**12/8/25** Today I cut my CNC topography into the wood block. This took a long time to set up because we are all still figuring out the machine. This was confusing because it only exported as a CNC much we thought that it needed to be an NC because it initially did not work. However, I learned how to work it very quickly and realized that it is much easier to learn by doing then through a workflow. I offset my cut at (6,6) to cut in the rectangle instead of on one side of it. It took about 2.5 hours to cut and it turned out very good. I need to cut the excess wood off of the sides to isolate the mountain. 

**12/9/25** We did not have class today, but I came in and cut off the excess wood from my topography wood. I also sanded it down so that there was no lip between where the mountain and the flat section began. 

**12/10/25** Today we went in person to visit Atrium Rehabilitation Center and meet with Heather Smith regarding our designs. Firs off, I brought my donning tube (with generic sizing of a diameter of 12 inches and a height of 9 inches). Heather was initially concerned about the handles getting in the way of the sock, but after consideration, she decided that it did not and was actually a great design idea. The donning tube was left with her and will be implemented on the next amputee patient who needs it. Karlin Smith got feedback on her quadstick, learning that the screws did not fit the design, and she will continue by trying to make them built in. Scarlett and Caroline set up and showed their mount system, and recieved comments about the strength of the locks and the differing attachments that they will have in order to make it more versatile. 

**12/10/25** Today I went back and made the final donning tube design parametric. Before, I had many variables, but I decided that I only wanted to have 2. I made every single dimension dependent on the diameter (except for the hight). I wanted the height to be seperate because there may be a need for a longer or shorter body regardless of the width. This included every offset, fillet, and extrusion being an equation revolving the variable "diameter". 

**12/11/25** Today I documented all of the work that I have been doing all week and continued to fulfill my duties as Operation Lead. To do this, I responded to all emails pertaining to CAD design, letting advanced students know which projects are available and what conditions they need to be under. I also completed my Git page for the donning tube- the only thing I may have to do is copy and paste certain documentation over to it so that someone does not need to read through all of my documentation if they only want the parts about the donning tube. 

---

**1/6/26**
Today is the first day of the second semester. This involved my planning for what I wanted to complete in this semester. Therefore, I researched the project list and decided which design I wanted to pursue next. I liked the idea of the tenodesis gripper because it is so expensive and combines CAD with function. I also spoke to my teacher about combining forces with a coder to create a website where orders can be placed from the hospital for designs with the dimensions and customizations necessary. This will make the process of manufacturing much simpler for both parties. I will continue to research for the tenodesis grabber and sketch some rough outlines tomorrow as well as looking at references and reviews on such. 

1/7/26 - 1/14/26
Throughout these days, I have thoroughly been researching self catheterization aids. This has involved looking at the market and discovering the average price, who dominates the market, and why they are underserved. My researech includes the largest needs for self catheterization (neurogenic bladder, obstructury urinary retention, post-surgery urinary retention, disfunctional voiding), the gender gap and how this leads to less interest in aids, the cost of each part, and how this is approved or accepted by the community who self catheterizes. All of this research will be layed out cleanly in my section. My initial design idea (basic sketch) is to use CAD to create an arc that molds to the leg (not tight so that it can be adaptable) combined with straps that thread through the printed arc and strap around the leg. This makes less of a need for PLA to reduce cost, and also allows the patient to tighten or loosen the strap accordingly. Finally, this arc will connect to a medical grade mirror between the legs. I have not decided if I want to make it completely permanent or slightly adjustable. There are benefits and consequences to both. I will meet with Heather Smith tomorrow to go over my research and discuss what she and patients would prefer. 

**1/15/26**
Today I had a zoom meeting with Heather Smith (occupational therapist), accompanied by an amputee specialist and a self catheterization specialist. The meeting started with discussing the donning tube. In this, the specialist mentioned that the compression shrinkers are labeled A, B, C... as the diameter increases. This makes my job with the donning tube much easier. My plan moving forward is to create these sizes on the donning tubes and label them accordingly (most likely will extrude a cut through with the letter). Next, we discussed the catheterization aid. This conversation was very exciting because the self-catheterization aid is a needed device amongst nurses at every hospital. The things we considered were two arches to spread the legs and a plank like board in between with a mirror attached. Their should be LEDs and the mirror should have the ability to turn on the axis of the bar for better visibility. 

**1/16/26 - 1/23/26**
This week was spent in CAD doing work on a self catheterization aid. I did alot of research with different joints and tightening mechanisms that I could combine. This has been very difficult because when I find a joint that I like, it seems to be hindered by the material, the durability, or the fact that my tightener needs to transfer the bolt from vertical to horizontal. I created a hirth joint in Fusion because I like the idea of a system that "clicks" when they rotate to adjust. Along with this, I made an arc in Fusion with suggested paramters from Fusion, but this part will include trial and error including feedback with the specialist. I also spent alot of this week simply researching the mechanisms that will work best together that I can design while proving to be the most durable over time. 

**1/27/26**
I heard back from the amputee specialist and Heather Smith in regards to sizing of the donning tubes. I began with sizes F, G, and J because those are the most common. She requested that the first few that I make are without handles so that we can test out sizing before I print the finals. This involved me making a parametric version without handles that include a section where I can input text that then extrudes through the design so that the tubes are easily labeled and do not require descernment. The goal is that I will provide the amputee wing with 1-2 full sets of donning tubes to use on patients. When a patient goes home, they can take the one from the set that fits them and I will print another to replace that tube in the hospitals set. This system optimizes the customizability for a patient without overproducing a size of donning tube. 

**1/28/26 - 1/29/26**
These days were spent on the sizing of the donning tubes and saving each as an STL. Fairly simply because of the parametric design that I altered. 

**2/4/26 - 2/5/26**
We had a very long weekend due to weather. In these days I spent the majority of the time printing the new sizes of these donning tubes. It took a long time because these prints take between 3-5 hours due to the size. The only section where they have supports is around the lettering because it is a straight cut through the side of the tube. I also decided that I needed to get started on printing the self-catheterization aid because I was starting out way too complicated. I decided to forgo the hinge for this exact moment and focus on overall structure. Therefore, I added threading to the plank and extruded a cut circle through the arc and threaded both to see how well they attach and if the leg spreaders will be even. 

**2/6/26**
I spent this class printing a small version of the fusion work I did yesterday. This is to test my threading and so that I can test how I want to lock the system without printing the large item. Along with this, I worked on documentation and GIT for the majority of class. I have been so engrossed with Atrium and CAD that I have not kept up with my documentation. I will continue to update the actual pages over this weekend and I also plan to design more screws to trap the threaded plank. 

**2/9/26 - 2/12/26**
These days were spent alternating between printing new sizes of donning of donning tubes. As of right now, G and F are complete. They do not have handles because the amputee specialist requested straight tubes first (this is what they have used in the past. While these are printing, I have been in CAD updating the self catheterization aid. This consists of cornfirming the threading and not extruding the cut all the way through the arch, this is so that the arch rests comfortably on the thigh. 

**2/18/26** 
I figured out the threading between the arch and plack. The next step is comofortability and discovering what sizes everything should be to optimize the size of the mirror while still being portable. 

**2/19/26**
Today I further altered the design of the self catheterization aid by increasing the amnount of material and reducing the hole and threading on the arch. This is because on the print from yesterday, I felt as though if I pushed harder with the plank, it could break through the arch. 

**2/20/26**
Today was the first successful print where all of the threading came together. This is a very big breakthrough because of multiple things. The first is that while it is adjustable, it is not easily knocked. This ensures that the patient can rotate the mirror for the best visibility but it will not be knocked around while the patient is inserting. The other benefits are that it is deconstructable and therefore more portable. The next step will be to add slits for a strap to go through around one of the thighs. I am also printing a whole new set because the supports on the bar messed up the threading a litte bit and I want a clean set to demonstrate. 

**2/23/26** 
Today I began to map out the parametrics for the self-cathing aid. This will be much more helpful when I determine the different sizes that people need, because it will allow me to print multiple different sizes without spending time on the design. This means that I can be more efficient and drop off multiple sizes for the doctors to experiment instead of the back and forth and trial and error. 

**2/24/26** I put a pause on the parametric design for the self catheterization aid right now because until I determine the thickness of the arch, whether I want it to slant, and whether I want the holes with threading extruded all of the way through, making it parametric would simply make it more work later on. I prefer to make the whole design and get it improved, and then go in and copy down all of the dimensions necessary to recreate as a parametric design. This allows me to focus first of all on the design and then go back once I already know how it turns out. This is the same strategy I used for the donning tube. I altered the design today to extrude the holes all the way through and printed this. These prints take around 4-5 hours so I will have to update tomorrow. I chose to do this because on my last print, I noticed that the barrier of PLA was so thin that if someone decided to continue trying to thread the plank through, this would pop the PLA. My two options as of right now would be to 1) increase the thickness of the arch so that I can make the barrier more sturdy without subtracting the thread count of 2) completely extrude cut through as I did today. The struggle with the second option is that if threaded through too much, the user will feel the plank because it can be threaded beyond the arch. I will most likely provide Heather Smith with both next week and confirm which one she wants me to pursue or if I should continue two protoypes for now. The nice thing is that they have the same threading dimensions, so I can continue to alter them the same and advance everything else the same without making duplicates. 

**2/25/26** 
Today I sent out an email to three juniors who have a high level of experience and want to be more involved in the Pearl. I paired them up on the project for a tenodesis reacher. I did this because it is a complex project because of size, research, and cost efficiency. While these three would most likely prefer to work alone, I find it important that they learn to work together since they will most likely have to do this next year much more. Also, having three experienced engineers on a project might seem like a waste of resources, but this is an important project, so the faster they can do this the better. On the administrative side of things, I will email all people who have helped last semester this upcpoming week and tell them to print their designs and then drop them off to Heather Smith when I have the availability. 

**2/26/26**
I made a dropoff to Atrium today. The back contained Karlins newest print of her quad sticks. These took a while because first of all, she had to design thescrews and decided to input them into the design as to remove extra pieces and decrease the need for reprinting if they lose screws. I also dropped off two sizes of my donning tubes, G and F. These are without the handles because the prosthetic specialist wanted to confirm diameter and circumference before continueing on, and this is actually very helpful because the handles add about 2 hours to the overall print time and "waste" PLA. However, these prints were very confusing to me because the dimensions she gave me were with these requests: F (diameter 6.5 inches, circumference 19 inches) , G (diameter 6.5 inches, circumference 21 inches), and J (diameter 8 inches, circumference 24 inches). While this seems to make intitial sense, the calculations do not add up. I thought that the diameter were accounting for the inner diameter and the circumference was the overall (including thickness of the tube). However, after calculating, the circumference of 6.5 with no thickness is 20.43, so there is no way that I can make F (the circumference is not possible for a diameter of 6.5 inches. The same thing occurs with J, as the circumference of 8 with no thickness is 25.13 inches. I decided to make the tubes in accordance with the diameters and did the thicknesses as I thought would work, with G being slightly thicker than F as requested. Once I hear back, I can alter this accordingly. The bag also contained Scarlett's ball joint and Karlins cupholder. The things not included but were emailed designs and video demonstration are my self catheterization aid and Caroline's recreation of the clamp. I decided not to include my self cathing aid because a video is much more helpful to explain the concept, the deconstructability, and how it can toggle to adjust the mirror. 

**2/28/26 - 2/29/26**
These weekend will be alot of Git work for me. I need to update my donning tube page with the clarification of sizes, completely build my self cathing page, review my documentation, and finally, make a slideshow to present on Thursday. This Thursday, our Capstone projects are due. Myself and the others working on Pearl is a bit of an exception because we are not done and will continue this work not only for the rest of the school year but throughout the summer as well. While our presentations may not look as glamorous as others, there is much more of a time delay to recieve feedback, set Zoom and in person meetings, and drop off prototypes. This message will need to be conveyed in the presentation. 






